# Welcome to the Lero Open Source Programme Office (Lero-OSPO)

The [Lero Open Source Program Office (Lero-OSPO)](https://sfi-lero.github.io/OSPO/) is a dedicated platform that is set up with the goal of promoting engagement between Lero members, stakeholders, and the broader Open Source community. The primary functions of the OSPO include overseeing the development and management of open source software at [Lero, the Science Foundation Ireland Research Centre for Software](https://lero.ie/), with responsibilities including open source library selection, license compliance workflows, managing Lero members'relationship with the broader open source software (OSS) community, and more.

The two core values managed and advocated by Lero-OSPO are:

1. **Comply:** Open source software is free to use, but comes with an important responsibility: to comply with licensing requirements. Given the number and variety of licenses — not to mention the difficulty of unearthing deep dependencies — this can sometimes be easier said than done. Lero members must comply with licensing requirements in order to avoid potential litigation or reputational damage to Lero and its partners. One of the main functions of Lero-OSPO is governing license compliance, including determining which licenses can be used with which projects and overseeing how teams track their open source components and dependencies.
2. **Contribute:** The OSS community is a diverse group that includes everyone from individual developers to large enterprises that sponsor various projects.  Contribution is a core pillar of the open source community mindset and it is also one of the main reasons why open source has thrived in recent years. Lero encourages its members to contribute back to the OSS community (see Lero Open Source Charter - link to be added), which not only builds goodwill with the Open Source community whose code might be the building block for one or more Lero projects, but also can be beneficial in creating potential funding opportunities by showcasing Lero's contributions (because Open Source contributions are much more visible) to interested parties.
